# Philosophy

**Building a storefront requires solving multiple domain-specific problems separately and ensuring these solutions work well together. It’s not an easy task associated with considerable risk, but luckily this is precisely what Vue Storefront is built for**.

**We provide an ecosystem of independent developer tools** adressing challenges that you will inevitably encounter when building an eCommerce storefront, such as:

- Building a scalable Design System with accessible components to keep consistency between different user interface elements.
- Building a fast and reliable Storefront that delivers excellent User Experience to your customers.
- Integrating different vendors into your storefront.
- Managing infrastructure, CI/CD pipelines, and deployments to keep the application fast and reliable even under heavy loads.
- Implementing engineering and architecture best practices ensures that the project remains flexible and maintainable even on a large scale.

Our goal is simple - accelerate and simplify your development process without compromising quality and flexibility.

## Vue Storefront is built for custom use-cases

Headless and Composable architectures are meant for tailored solutions. Instead of living with trade-offs of your monolithic eCommerce vendor you're choosing more granular tools that are best-suited to your needs. This way you can work more effectvely than your competitors.

Same rule applies to your storefront. This is the part of the system that your customers will interact with the most. Instead of showing them a generic storefront with mediocre performace you have a chance to stand out and deliver outstanding user experience that they'll remember.

After browsing countless landing pages of WYSIWYG Page Builders developers often come to the conslusion that available tools are too limiting and the only way to achieve outstanding user experience is building the storefront from scratch.

While this idea could sound tempting at first glance it often leads to the opposite effect. Developers tend to oversimplify the effort and complexity of building a storefront and the end result often costs more, takes more time to finish and the final result is far from what they hoped it to be.

We've built Vue Storefront precisely for this kind of developer. **With Vue Storefront you are able to build the same things that you could build from scratch. You build them faster and mitigate the risk that is always high for complex projects.** Every technical decision has major impact on the future of the project and its hard to make them all right for the first time. **We spent years on making mistakes so you don't have to.**

## Best Developer Experience on the market

TBD