---
title: Install Alokai SDK
layout: default
navigation:
  icon: tabler:number-3-small
---

# Install and Configure Alokai SDK

In the last sections, we have configured Alokai Nuxt project and installed the Alokai Middleware. In this section, we will install and configure the Alokai Context that contains both the SDK and state manager.

The Alokai SDK and Alokai Middleware together called Alokai Connect. Both SDK and Middleware are used in tandem to connect the Alokai frontend with the backend. SDK is responsible for establishing the connection with the Middleware, while Middleware is responsible to orchestrate the communication with the backend.

## Install Alokai Context

This time we will solely focus on `storefront` application. Navigate to a newly generated `storefront` directory and install the `@vue-storefront/nuxt` package by running the following command:

```bash
cd apps/storefront
npm install --save @vue-storefront/nuxt
```

Add `@vue-storefront/nuxt` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.ts`

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@vue-storefront/nuxt"],
});
```

It is a dedicated Nuxt package for Alokai SDK. It simplifies the use of the SDK in Nuxt applications.

And that's it! You have successfully installed the Alokai SDK. Now let's configure it to work with SAP Commerce Cloud and Alokai Middleware.

## Configure Alokai SDK

Create SDK Config file - `sdk.config.ts` in root directory of your project.

```ts [sdk.config.ts]
import type { Endpoints } from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api";

export default defineSdkConfig(
  ({ buildModule, middlewareModule, getRequestHeaders, config }) => ({
    sapcc: buildModule(middlewareModule<Endpoints>, {
      apiUrl: config.middlewareUrl + "/sapcc",
      defaultRequestConfig: {
        headers: getRequestHeaders(),
      },
    }),
  })
);
```

Create `.env` file in the `storefront` directory with the following content:

```[.env]
NUXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MIDDLEWARE_API_URL="http://localhost:8181"
```

In this files tell the SDK where the middleware resides and what Endpoints are exposed by it. This is the part that ensures
type-safety across the application.

Great job! Alokai Connect is successfully configured and we can start building! 

::info
You can find complete implementation in the [`install-sdk` branch](https://github.com/vuestorefront-community/nuxt-starter/tree/install-sdk)
::

## Summary

In this section, we have installed and configured Alokai Connect.

In the next section, we will learn how to use Alokai Connect to get the first data from SAP Commerce Cloud and how to use Alokai SDK.

::card{title="Next: First request with Alokai Connect" icon="tabler:number-4-small" }

#description
Learn how to get your first data from the SAP Commerce Cloud using Alokai Connect.

#cta
:::docs-button{to="/guides/alokai-essentials/alokai-nuxt/first-request"}
Next
:::
::
