# Creating a Custom Integration

If you're looking to create a custom integration for Alokai, you're in the right place. This guide will walk you through the process of creating a custom integration from scratch.

:::warning
This section covers how to create an integration SDK module. If you're looking for a ready-to-use integration, please check out the [Modules](/integrations) section.
:::

To help you scaffold a project, you can use our CLI to generate the boilerplate for your integration SDK module. To do that, run the following command:

[//]: # "//TODO: add link to the boilerplate"

```bash
npx @vue-storefront/cli create integration
```

The CLI will ask you a few questions about your integration and generate the boilerplate for you.

### Running the application

Let's run the application and see what we've got:

```bash
yarn dev
```

:::warning
If you have any issues specific to this Boilerplate, please report them on the [vuestorefront/integration-boilerplate](https://github.com/vuestorefront/integration-boilerplate)
:::

But first, let's take a look at the boilerplate structure.

### Boilerplate structure

:::tip
To make things easier, we use a [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/) to manage the boilerplate.
It allows us to manage dependencies and publish packages more efficiently.
If you're unfamiliar with Turborepo, please check out the [documentation](https://turbo.build/repo/docs).
:::

- `packages/api-client` - contains the API client for your integration. It's a set of functions that will be used to communicate with the backend API.
- `playground/app` - contains an application with the SDK module and API client already integrated. It's a great place to see your integration in action.
  You choose the type of application you want to use as a playground during the boilerplate generation process.
- `playground/middleware` - contains a middleware that will communicate with the api-client.

### Creating a new Endpoint

Let's create a new endpoint in the API client.

```bash
yarn vsf add endpoint getProduct
```

Let's check out what's been generated for us:

API Client:

- `packages/api-client/src/api/getProduct/index.ts` - contains the `getProduct` endpoint.
- `packages/api-client/src/api/index.ts` - contains the `getProduct` endpoint export.
- `packages/api-client/src/types/api/endpoints.ts` - contains the `getProduct` endpoint exported interface method.

Playground:

- `playground/app/pages/index.vue` - contains the `getProduct` endpoint usage example.

:::warning
The app should rebuild after adding a new endpoint. If it doesn't, please rebuild the project and run the app again.
:::

```bash
yarn build && yarn dev
```

Now you can check out `http://localhost:3000/getProduct` in the browser to see the `getProduct` endpoint in action.

In the following sections you will learn more about the API client and SDK module.
