---
title:
layout: default
---

# Welcome to Alokai Guides

Welcome to the guides section of the documentation. Here you will find a collection of guides to help you get started with the platform.

At **Alokai**, we are committed to providing the best possible experience for our users. We are constantly working on improving our documentation and adding new guides to help you get the most out of the platform.



## Learn Alokai

Follow this path to understand how to use Alokai and start building your Alokai application following performance best practices.
::steps

#step-1
::card{title="Alokai Essentials" to="/guides/alokai-essentials" class="mb-5 !h-auto"}
#description
Learn how to build Alokai Application: From 0 to Hero. Understand how different parts of our stack will help you to build your Alokai application.
::

#step-2
::card{title="Customization" to="/guides/customization-next-js" class="mb-5 !h-auto"}
#description
Alokai is not a cookie-cutter solution, it is meant to be able to handle even the most complex use cases. This guide will take you through the most common customization scenarios.
::

#step-3
::card{title="Multistore" to="/guides/multistore" class="mb-5 !h-auto"}
#description
Learn how to create efficient and unified multigeo/multibrand/multivendor setups with Alokai.
::

#section-4
:card{to="/guides/kubernetes-probe" title="Kubernetes Probes" description="Alokai Cloud customers' middleware and frontend apps are deployed in Kubernetes. Check how Kubernetes mechanisms are used by Alokai Cloud" icon="tabler:heart-rate-monitor"}

#section-5
:card{to="/guides/best-practices" title="Best Practices" description="Check what to follow to keep your storefront in the best possible shape" icon="tabler:rosette-discount-check"}


::


## Advanced

::card{title="Kubernetes Probes" to="/guides/kubernetes-probe" class="mb-5"}
#description
Learn how to implement health check endpoints for your Alokai Cloud applications running on Kubernetes. This guide covers liveness and readiness probes implementation to ensure proper application monitoring and reliability.
::

## Best Practices

::card{title="Performance" to="/guides/performance" class="mb-5"}
#description
Every 100ms added to loading time costed Amazon 1% less sales. Don't let the poor performance to ruin your sales. Learn how to optimize your store for speed.
::

::info
Can't find what you're looking for? Check out our [cookbook](/cookbook) for more guides and tutorials.
::

