# Getting Started

If you're setting your Alokai application from scratch, you'll need to configure a type-safe SDK that communicates with your [Server Middleware](/middleware).

:::tip
In the examples below, we assume that you have an Alokai app with the Unified Data Model. However, the approach for non-unified Alokai applications is similar.
:::

There are various ways to configure the SDK, depending on your chosen framework. For Next.js and Nuxt, you can use the `@vue-storefront/next` and `@vue-storefront/nuxt` packages respectively. 
These packages also provide tools for handling the global state management.

If you're looking for framework agnostic experience, you can use the `@vue-storefront/sdk` package.

::tabs{:titles='["Next.js", "Nuxt", "Other"]' class="mt-8"}

#tab-1

## Installation

To get started with the SDK within Next.js, first you have to install the `@vue-storefront/next` package. In the root of your Storefront project run:

```bash [Next.js]
# Using yarn
yarn add --dev @vue-storefront/next

# Using pnpm
pnpm add -D @vue-storefront/next

# Using npm
npm install --save-dev @vue-storefront/next
```

## Initializing the SDK

To use SDK in our application, we need to initialize it first. To do so, follow these steps:

1. Create an `sdk` directory in the root of your project.

2. Create the SDK Options file — `sdk.options.ts` in the `sdk` directory. In this file, we create a configuration object used to pass information to the SDK Factory about the address of the middleware, both in client and SSR mode, the identifier for cache busting, etc.

::info
If you want to keep your Storefront more configurable, we highly recommend using the `next-runtime-env` library to read the environment variables from the runtime rather than hard-coding them during the build process.
::

```ts [sdk/options.ts]
import { resolveSdkOptions } from '@vue-storefront/next';
import { env } from 'next-runtime-env';

export function getSdkOptions() {
  const apiUrl = env('NEXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MIDDLEWARE_API_URL') ?? '';
  const ssrApiUrl = env('NEXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MIDDLEWARE_SSR_API_URL');
  const cdnCacheBustingId = env('NEXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MIDDLEWARE_CDN_CACHE_BUSTING_ID') ?? 'no-cache-busting-id-set';
  const isMultiStoreEnabled = env('NEXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MULTISTORE_ENABLED') === 'true';
  if (!apiUrl) {
    throw new Error('NEXT_PUBLIC_ALOKAI_MIDDLEWARE_API_URL is required to run the app');
  }

  const options = resolveSdkOptions({
    middleware: {
      apiUrl,
      cdnCacheBustingId,
      ssrApiUrl,
    },
    multistore: {
      enabled: isMultiStoreEnabled,
    },
  });

  return options;
}
```

3. Create SDK Config file - `config.ts`. In this file, we define the configuration of different modules. We are making it a separate file to easily import it both on the server and the client. Create the SDK configuration by importing the `createSdk` function from the Next.js SDK and using the `middlewareModule` it provides. You should also import other modules you want to use.

```ts [sdk/config.ts]
import { contentfulModule } from "@vsf-enterprise/contentful-sdk";
import { defineSdkConfig } from "@vue-storefront/next";
import type { CommerceEndpoints, UnifiedEndpoints } from "storefront-middleware/types";

export function getSdkConfig() {
  return defineSdkConfig(({ buildModule, config, middlewareModule, getRequestHeaders }) => ({
    commerce: buildModule(middlewareModule<UnifiedEndpoints>, {
      apiUrl: config.middlewareUrl + "/commerce",
      defaultRequestConfig: {
        headers: getRequestHeaders(),
      },
    }),
    cms: buildModule(contentfulModule, {
      apiUrl: config.middlewareUrl + "/cms",
    }),
  }));
}
```

- The `buildModule` function is used to build the module. It expects the module and the module configuration as arguments.

- The `config` is object containg data that is needed in module configuration such as:
  - the URL of the middleware instance
  - or the busting ID for CDN cache

- The `middlewareModule` is an SDK module that ensures communication with the Server Middleware. It takes the `UnifiedEndpoints` type as a generic parameter. The `UnifiedEndpoints` type is a type that represents the endpoints of the Server Middleware.

- The `getRequestHeaders` function is used to provide the incoming headers within your requests. You can use `getRequestHeaders` to access and proxy the initial cookie headers to SDK requests during SSR. Initial headers could be provided by the [`getSdk`](#getsdk) method.
  Check out examples there:
  - Next Pages Router [link](https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/tree/main/packages/storefront/packages/next/__tests__/apps/pages-router)
  - Next App Router [link](https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/tree/main/packages/storefront/packages/next/__tests__/apps/app-router)
  - Nuxt app [link](https://github.com/vuestorefront/vue-storefront/tree/main/packages/storefront/packages/nuxt/__tests__/app)

::info
In the browser, `getRequestHeaders` will return an empty object.
::

- The `defineSdkConfig` function returns the factory function for the SDK configuration as a second argument in `createSdk`. This factory function receives context, which is useful for creating the SDK configuration.

4. Create SDK instance for server components. Let's do it in the `sdk.server.ts` in the `sdk` directory.

::info
It is not necessary to name the file `sdk.server.ts` specifically or to keep it in the `sdk` directory, but it is recommended to keep it consistent with the rest of the Alokai project.
::

```ts [sdk/sdk.server.ts]
import { createSdk } from "@vue-storefront/next";
import { getSdkOptions } from "./options";
import { getSdkConfig } from "./config";

export const { getSdk } = createSdk(
  getSdkOptions(),
  getSdkConfig()
);

export type Sdk = ReturnType<typeof getSdk>;
```

Let's break down the code above:

- The `createSdk` function expects

  - base SDK options including the middleware and (optionally) the multistore configuration as a first argument,
  - and a factory function for the SDK configuration as a second argument. Those factory function receives a context, useful for creating the SDK configuration.

- The `createSdk` function returns the `getSdk` function, which is used to retreive the new SDK instance.

## Registering the SDK

Once you have initialized the SDK, you can register it in your application.

Alokai SDK can be used in two ways:

- `getSdk` - returns the SDK instance, which can be used to call the SDK methods directly. This is useful for server-side rendering, as it allows you to call the SDK methods directly in your application.

- `createSdkContext` - returns the SDK context, which can be used to share the same SDK instance on the Client side. This is useful for client-side rendering, as it allows you to share the same SDK instance across your application.

### getSdk

`getSdk` is used to create the new SDK instance. This is especially useful for server-side fetching, as it returns a new SDK instance that can be used to call the SDK methods directly in your application.

Below is an example of how you can use `getSdk` in your application:

```ts
import { getSdk } from "@/sdk/sdk.server";

const sdk = getSdk();
```

### createAlokaiContext

For client-side rendering, you can use `createAlokaiContext`. This function serves for two purposes:
- providing the SDK context
- providing the global state management context and hooks for handling the state of the application

To use it, you'll need to create a new file in your application, for example `sdk/alokai-context.tsx`:

```ts
'use client';

import { createAlokaiContext } from '@vue-storefront/next/client';

import type { Sdk } from './sdk.server';

export const { AlokaiProvider, useSdk } = createAlokaiContext<Sdk>();
```

This is also a place where you can import hooks for handling the state management. You can read more about the state management in the [State Management](/sdk/getting-started/state-management) page.

Once you have created the Alokai context, you can create client-side SDK instance and register it in your application. 

You can do it in two steps:

1. Retrieve the SDK config in the server component in `app/[locale]/layout.tsx`:

```tsx
// app/[locale]/layout.tsx

import { ReactNode } from "react";
import { PublicEnvProvider } from "next-runtime-env";
import { Providers } from "./providers";
import { getSdkOptions } from "@/sdk/options";

export default function RootLayout({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  const sdkOptions = getSdkOptions();

  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>
        <PublicEnvProvider>
          <Providers sdkOptions={sdkOptions}>{children}</Providers>
        </PublicEnvProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

2. Pass the SDK options to the `Providers` client component and initialize the SDK instance along with the `AlokaiProvider`:

```tsx
// components/providers.tsx

"use client";

import { ReactNode } from "react";
import type { CreateSdkOptions } from '@vue-storefront/next';
import { SdkProvider } from "@/sdk";
import { getSdkOptions } from "@/sdk/options";
import { getSdkConfig } from "@/sdk/config";

export function Providers({ children, sdkOptions }: { children: ReactNode, sdkOptions: CreateSdkOptions }) {
  const { getSdk } = createSdk(
    sdkOptions,
    getSdkConfig()
  );
  return (
    <AlokaiProvider sdk={getSdk()}>
      {children}
    </AlokaiProvider>
  )
}
```

::info
Don't be alarmed if you see a `use client` directive in the `components/providers.tsx` file. This will not turn your application into a client-side rendered application. All children inside the provider will be still rendered on the server-side by default. You can read more about `use client` directive in [React Documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react/use-client).
::

## Usage

Once you have registered the SDK in your application, you can start using it. Here's an example of how you can use the SAP Commerce Cloud SDK module in your application:

::code-group

```tsx [Pages Router]
import { getSdk } from "@/sdk";

export async function getServersideProps() {
  const sdk = getSdk();
  const { products } = await sdk.commerce.searchProduct();

  return {
    props: {
      products,
    },
  };
}
```

```tsx [App Router]
import { getSdk } from "@/sdk";

const sdk = getSdk();

const { products } = await sdk.commerce.searchProduct();
```

```tsx [Client Side Rendering]
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";
import { useSdk } from '@/sdk/sdk-context';

export function ClientComponentUsingSDK() {
  const sdk = useSdk();
  const [cart, setCart] = useState([]);

  useEffect(() => {
    const fetchCart = async () => {
      const newCart = await sdk.commerce.getCart({
        cartId: "<cart_id>",
        fields: "code,guid,user(FULL)",
      });
      setCart(newCart);
    };

    fetchCart();
  }, []);
}
```

::

Code above is just an example of how you can use the SDK in your application. For more information about the available methods, please refer to the respective [Integration's documentation](/integrations).

That's it! You can now use VueStorefront SDK Module in your Next.js app ✨

#tab-2

## Installation

To get started with the SDK within Nuxt, first you have to install and configure the `@vue-storefront/nuxt` module.

1. In the root of your Storefront project run:

```bash [Nuxt]
# Using yarn
yarn add --dev @vue-storefront/nuxt

# Using pnpm
pnpm add -D @vue-storefront/nuxt

# Using npm
npm install --save-dev @vue-storefront/nuxt
```

2. Add `@vue-storefront/nuxt` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.ts`

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@vue-storefront/nuxt"],
});
```

3. Configure the module

To configure the module, use `vsf` key in the Nuxt configuration object and provide necessary information such as the Middleware instance address:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@vue-storefront/nuxt"],
  vsf: {
    middleware: {
      apiUrl: "http://localhost:4000",
    },
  },
});
```

## Initializing the SDK

To use SDK in our application, we need to initialize it first. To do so, follow these steps:

Create SDK Config file - `sdk.config.ts` in root directory of your project.

::info
For Nuxt framework it's necessary to name the file `sdk.config.ts` and keep it in the root of your project.
::

You should import all other SDK configuration components. See the example below illustrating the SDK configuration with SAP Commerce Cloud and Contentful modules.

```ts [sdk.config.ts]
import { contentfulModule } from "@vsf-enterprise/contentful-sdk";
import { UnifiedEndpoints } from "storefront-middleware/types";

export default defineSdkConfig(
  ({ buildModule, config, middlewareModule getRequestHeaders }) => ({
    commerce: buildModule(middlewareModule<UnifiedEndpoints>, {
      apiUrl: config.middlewareUrl + "/commerce", // SAP Commerce Cloud integration is available at /commerce endpoint
      defaultRequestConfig: {
        headers: getRequestHeaders(),
      },
    }),
    cms: buildModule(contentfulModule, {
      apiUrl: config.middlewareUrl + "/cms",
    }),
  })
);
```

Let's break down the code above:

The `defineSdkConfig` function is used for initializing the SDK. The parameter for calling this function should be an anonymous function that receives an injected context from the module, containing:

- the `buildModule` function,
- the configuration object that contains data useful in module configuration such as: middleware URL (`middlewareUrl`), or cache busting identifier (`cdnCacheBustingId`)
- the `middlewareModule` - an SDK module that ensures communication with the Server Middleware. It takes the `UnifiedEndpoints` type as a generic parameter. The `UnifiedEndpoints` type is a type that represents the endpoints of the Server Middleware,
- a function for retrieving request header, including cookie header (`getRequestHeaders`).

## Usage

Once you have initialized the SDK, you can start using it. Here's an example of how you can use the SAP Commerce Cloud SDK module in your application:

```vue
<template>/* ... */</template>

<script setup>
const sdk = useSdk();

const { data: products } = await useAsyncData("products", () =>
  sdk.commerce.searchProduct()
);
</script>
```

Code above is just an example of how you can use the SDK in your application. For more information about the available methods, please refer to the respective [Integration's documentation](/integrations).

That's it! You can now use VueStorefront SDK Module in your Nuxt app ✨

#tab-3

## Installation

To install the SDK Core, run the following command:

::code-group

```bash [npm]
# Using npm
npm install @vue-storefront/sdk

# Using yarn
yarn add @vue-storefront/sdk

# Using pnpm
pnpm install @vue-storefront/sdk
```

::

## Initializing the SDK

Next, you have to initialize the SDK, along with any integrations' SDK modules in your frontend project. To do so, follow these steps:

1. Create SDK Config file - `sdk.config.ts` in root directory of your project.

::info
It is not necessary to name the file `sdk.config.ts` specifically or to keep it in the root of your project, but it is recommended to keep it consistent with the rest of the Alokai project.
::

2. Create the SDK configuration by importing the `initSDK` function from the SDK Core and the modules you want to use.

::tip
The examples below use the SAP Commerce Cloud and Contentful SDK modules. However, the same principles apply to all modules.
::

When it comes to managing multiple SDK modules, there are two options for this:

1. **Individual exports (recommended)** - initialize each integration as a separate SDK instance, allowing for better code-splitting
2. **Single Instance** - combine multiple modules in one SDK instance

### Individual Exports

```ts [sdk.config.ts]
import { initSDK, buildModule, middlewareModule } from "@vue-storefront/sdk";
import { contentfulModule } from "@vsf-enterprise/contentful-sdk";
import { UnifiedEndpoints } from "storefront-middleware/types";

const { commerce } = initSDK({
  commerce: buildModule(middlewareModule<UnifiedEndpoints>, {
    apiUrl: "http://localhost:8181/commerce",
  }),
});

const { cms } = initSDK({
  cms: buildModule(contentfulModule, {
    apiUrl: "http://localhost:8181/cms",
  }),
});

export { commerce, cms };
```

### Single Instance

```ts [sdk.config.ts]
import { initSDK, buildModule, middlewareModule } from "@vue-storefront/sdk";
import { contentfulModule } from "@vsf-enterprise/contentful-sdk";
import { UnifiedEndpoints } from "storefront-middleware/types";

const sdkConfig = {
  commerce: buildModule(middlewareModule<UnifiedEndpoints>, {
    apiUrl: "http://localhost:8181/commerce",
  }),
  cms: buildModule(contentfulModule, {
    apiUrl: "http://localhost:8181/cms",
  }),
};

export const sdk = initSDK(sdkConfig);
```

The SDK Core exposes two methods to help with this, `buildModules`, which takes in SDK modules and uses them to extend the SDK Core, and `initSDK`, which takes multiple modules and converts them into a type-safe interface.

::tip
#title
You can name the modules anything you want.

#default
For example, you can rename `commerce` to `sapcc` and `cms` to `contentful`. `initSDK` will return an object with the same keys as the one passed to it.
::

### Usage

Once you have initialized the SDK, you can start using it. Here's an example of how you can use the SAP Commerce Cloud SDK module in your application:

::code-group

```ts[Individual Exports]
import { commerce } from "../sdk.config";

const { products } = await commerce.searchProduct();
```

```ts[Single Instance]
import { sdk } from "../sdk.config";

const { products } = await sdk.commerce.searchProduct();
```

::

Code above is just an example of how you can use the SDK in your application. For more information about the available methods, please refer to the respective [Integration's documentation](/integrations).

That's it! You can now use VueStorefront SDK Module in any JavaScript app ✨

::

## Next Steps

::grid{:columns="2"}
#section-1
:card{to="/sdk/getting-started/state-management" title="State Management" description="Learn how to use built in State Manager" icon="grommet-icons:storage"}
#section-2
:card{to="/sdk/advanced/extending-module" title="Extending the SDK" description="Learn how to customize, override, or extend any default functionality in the SDK" icon="ri:terminal-box-fill"}
#section-3
:card{to="/sdk/advanced/middleware-module" title="The middlewareModule" description="Understand how to use the default SDK module" icon="fa6-solid:layer-group"}
#section-4
:card{to="/sdk/advanced/custom-modules" title="Create a custom SDK module" description="Create your own custom SDK module" icon="fluent:puzzle-cube-piece-20-filled"}
#section-5
:card{to="/integrations" title="View all Integrations" description="View our ready-to-use integrations for popular e-commerce services" icon="fluent:puzzle-cube-piece-20-filled"}

::
