# Logger

The logger provides a logging utility for Alokai Storefront projects. It allows you to log messages at various levels and ability to provide additional context.

It is created to provide a unified way of logging messages across the project along with providing a structured data.

## Installation

If the logger is already included in the Alokai Storefront, you can skip this step.

The logger is provided by the SDK and the framework specific packages.

In order to install the logger, you need to update following packages to at least the following versions:

- `@vue-storefront/sdk` to `3.3.0`
- `@vue-storefront/nuxt` to `6.2.0`
- `@vue-storefront/next` to `4.3.0`

After updating the packages, you need to provide the logger to the storefront.

::tabs{:titles='["Next.js", "Nuxt"]' class="mt-8"}

#tab-1

Create a file `logger.ts` in the `sdk` directory and add the following content:

```ts
// apps/storefront-unified-nextjs/sdk/logger.ts

import { createLogger } from '@vue-storefront/next';

export const logger = createLogger();

```

#tab-2

You don't need to do anything. The logger is automatically provided by the `@vue-storefront/nuxt` package. It is available via auto-import and ready to use within the Nuxt storefront.
::

## Configuration

The default configuration is already provided, but you can customize it by providing the following options:

- `verbosity` - the minimum level of the message to be logged. The default value is `info`. Available values are:
  - `emergency`
  - `alert`
  - `critical`
  - `error`
  - `warning`
  - `notice`
  - `info`
  - `debug`
- `includeStackTrace` - a boolean value that determines if the stack trace should be included in the log message. The default value is `false`.

To provide the configuration for the logger, you need to update the following file:

::tabs{:titles='["Next.js", "Nuxt"]' class="mt-8"}

#tab-1

Navigate to the `logger.ts` file in the `sdk` directory and add the configuration object to the `createLogger` function, e.g.:

```ts
// apps/storefront-unified-nextjs/sdk/logger.ts

import { createLogger } from '@vue-storefront/next';

export const logger = createLogger(); // [!code --]
export const logger = createLogger({ // [!code ++]
  verbosity: 'debug', // [!code ++]
  includeStackTrace: true, // [!code ++]
}); // [!code ++]
```

#tab-2

Navigate to the `nuxt.config.ts` file and add the configuration object to the `@vue-storefront/nuxt` module, e.g.:
```ts
// apps/storefront-unified-nuxt/nuxt.config.ts

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // ...
  modules: [
    // ...
    '@vue-storefront/nuxt', // [!code --]
    ['@vue-storefront/nuxt', { // [!code ++]
      logger: { // [!code ++]
        verbosity: 'debug', // [!code ++]
        includeStackTrace: true, // [!code ++]
      } // [!code ++]
    }], // [!code ++]
    // ...
  ],
});

```
::

## Usage

You can use the logger similarly as you would use the common `console` object:

::tabs{:titles='["Next.js", "Nuxt"]' class="mt-8"}

#tab-1

No matter if this is a client or server side code, you can import the logger and use it to log messages the same way, e.g.:
```tsx
import { logger } from "@/sdk/logger";

function SomeComponent() {
  logger.info("Example server side log");

  // ...
}
```


#tab-2

```vue
// component
<script setup>
logger.info('Example log');
<script>
```

::

Now instead of using `console` you can use the logger to log messages at different levels.
You can use the following methods:
- `emergency`
- `alert`
- `critical`
- `error`
- `warning`
- `notice`
- `info`
- `debug`

Keep in mind that `log` method is not available, you can use `info` instead.