# Data Federation

Optimizing server requests through data federation is a common technique used within composable architectures that improves performance and reduces coupling between frotnend and backend API's. This guide shows how to use the `getApiClient` method to retrieve and interact with integrations within the context of another integration to mix them together in one request.

## Why?

- **Minimized Network Traffic**: Fewer server calls lead to reduced latency and enhanced responsiveness.
- **Simplified Frontend Architecture**: By grouping related server requests, the frontend logic becomes less complex and less coupled.
- **Data Unification**: You can retrieve data from multiple sources and unify it in one response under common data model unrelated to the details of underlying API's.

## How?

## Uisng `getApiClient` Method to access different API client

If you want to retrieve a loaded integration within the context of another, you can use the `getApiClient` method. This method serves as a bridge between various integrations, ensuring seamless data flow and interaction.

Usage:

```javascript
const sapcc = context.getApiClient("sapcc");
```

The `getApiClient` method takes a single argument, which is the key of the api client you wish to retrieve. This is the key you would define in the `middleware.config.js` file for the integration you wish to retrieve. The key is essentially an identifier for the integration.

Here's a basic example of what this might look like:

```typescript [middleware.config.ts]
export const integrations = {
  sapcc: {
    location: "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api/server",
    configuration: {
      // ...
    },
    extensions: (extensions) => [
      ...extensions,
      {
        name: "sapcc-contentful-extension",
        extendApiMethods: {
          getPDP: async (context, params: { id: string }) => {
            const sapccApi = context.api; // You can access integration methods directly
            const contentful = context.getApiClient("contentful"); // You can access other integrations using getApiClient

            const [product, content] = Promise.all(
              sapccApi.getProduct({ id: params.id }),
              contentful.api.getEntries({
                content_type: "product",
                "fields.sku": params.id,
              })
            );

            return {
              product,
              content,
            };
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  contentful: {
    location: "@vsf-enterprise/contentful-api/server",
    configuration: {
      // ...
    },
  },
};
```

1. Extend the integration with new endpoint: Create a new endpoint that will act as the main entry point for the grouped requests.

2. Group Server Requests: Within this endpoint, utilize the `getApiClient` method to retrieve and interact with the required integrations.

3. Aggregate Data: Once data from all required integrations is retrieved, aggregate and format it as needed.

4. Return Unified Response: Send a consolidated response back to the frontend.

### Using federation methods in the frontend

To call the federation endpoint, you can follow the [Using extension methods in the frontend guide](/middleware/guides/extensions#using-extension-methods-in-the-frontend).

## Real-World Examples

The examples provided demonstrate practical uses of data federation:

### Example 1: Fetching Custom Product Properties from Legacy Systems

This use case involves calling the commerce backend to fetch specific product data. Additionally, a separate call is made to a legacy custom system of the customer, to retrieve a custom product property (e.g., stock of the product). This data is used, for example, to display stock information on the product page.

Example implementation might look like this:

```typescript [middleware.config.ts]
export const integrations = {
  sapcc: {
    // ...
    extensions: (extensions) => [
      ...extensions,
      {
        name: "federation-extension",
        extendApiMethods: {
          enrichedSearch: async (context, params: { productId: string }) => {
            const sapccApi = context.api;
            const legacyCustomSystem = context.getApiClient("legacyCustomSystem");

            const [prouctStock, product] = await Promise.all([
              legacyCustomSystem.api.getProductStock({
                productId: params.productId,
              }),
              sapccApi.getProduct({
                { id: params.productId },
              }),
            ]);

            return {
              ...product,
              stock: productStock,
            };
          },
        },
      },
    ],
  },
  legacyCustomSystem: {
    // ...
  },
};
```

## TypeScript Support

`getApiClient` helper returns the `ApiClient` interface, which is a generic type. It takes three type arguments:

- `Api` - the type of the API object returned by the integration,
- `Config` - the type of the configuration object passed to the integration,
- `Client` - the type of the HTTP client object returned by the integration.

Usually, an integration exports those types. For example, the `sapcc` integration exports the following types:

```typescript
import {
  Endpoints,
  MiddlewareConfig,
  AxiosInstance,
} from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api";
```

:::tip Type of endpoints

Sometimes, the `Endpoints` type is not exported by the integration. If that's the case, you can import the `{xyz}IntegrationContext` type from the integration package. 

For example, the `sapcc` integration exports the `SapccIntegrationContext` type, which contains the following:

```typescript
import { SapccIntegrationContext } from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api";

SapccIntegrationContext.api // the endpoints type
SapccIntegrationContext.config // the configuration object type
SapccIntegrationContext.client // the HTTP client object type

```

This applies to all integrations.  
:::
