---
title: Install Alokai SDK
layout: default
navigation:
  icon: tabler:number-3-small
---

# Install and Configure Alokai SDK

In the last sections, we have configured Alokai React Native project and installed the Alokai Middleware. In this section, we will install and configure the Alokai SDK.

The Alokai SDK and Alokai Middleware, together called Alokai Connect, allow your frontend to interact with your SAP Backend. The SDK is responsible for establishing the connection with the Middleware, while Middleware is responsible to orchestrate the communication with the backend.

By using the SDK, we can have full-stack type-safety and also have predefined ways to customize data fetching.

In this guide, we will install the Alokai SDK and configure it to work with SAP Commerce Cloud and Alokai Middleware.

## Install Alokai SDK

This time we will solely focus on `react-native` application. Navigate to a newly generated `storefront-react-native` directory and install the SDK package by running the following command:

```bash
cd storefront-react-native
yarn add @vue-storefront/sdk
```

And that's it! You have successfully installed the Alokai SDK. Now let's configure it to work with SAP Commerce Cloud and Alokai Middleware. 

## Configure Alokai SDK

Now that you have successfully installed the Alokai SDK and SAP Commerce Cloud integration, you need to configure the SDK.

Before we begin, we need to install the `@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api` package. This is the same package that we have installed in the `storefront-middleware` application. This package allows us to get the `Endpoints` type, which is used to define the API endpoints for SAP Commerce Cloud.

```bash
yarn add @vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api
```

Create a new directory in the `storefront-react-native` directory called `sdk`. Inside the `sdk` directory, create a new file named `sdk.config.ts` and add the following code:

```typescript
import { initSDK, buildModule, middlewareModule } from "@vue-storefront/sdk";
import { Endpoints as SapccEndpoints } from "@vsf-enterprise/sapcc-api";

const sdkConfig = {
  sapcc: buildModule(middlewareModule<SapccEndpoints>, {
    apiUrl: "http://localhost:8181/sapcc",
    cdnCacheBustingId: "",
  }),
};

export const sdk = initSDK(sdkConfig);
```

:::info
We will skip the `cdnCacheBustingId` for now. This is used to invalidate the cache when the assets are updated. 
:::

And that's it! 


::info
You can find complete implementation in the [`install-sdk` branch](https://github.com/vuestorefront-community/alokai-rn-guide/tree/install-sdk)
::


## Summary

You have successfully configured the Alokai SDK. Now, let's use it in our React Native application.

In the next section, we will learn how to use Alokai Connect to get the first data from SAP Commerce Cloud and how to use Alokai SDK in React Native.

::card{title="Next: First request with Alokai Connect" icon="tabler:number-4-small" }

#description
Learn how to get your first data from the SAP Commerce Cloud using Alokai Connect.

#cta
:::docs-button{to="/guides/alokai-essentials/alokai-react-native/first-request"}
Next
:::
::