---
title:
layout: default
---

# Vue Storefront Next.js Guide

Welcome to the Vue Storefront Next.js guide. This guide will help you get started with building your first Vue Storefront application from the ground up.

This guide is designed to help you get started with Vue Storefront and provide you with the knowledge you need to build your first Vue Storefront x Next.js application. We will cover everything from creating a new Vue Storefront project to building a simple application that uses the Vue Storefront products.

## What You Will Learn

- How to create a new Vue Storefront project
- How to build a simple Vue Storefront application
- How to use the Vue Storefront products

## Framework of Choice

This guide will focus on [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) as the frontend framework of choice. Next.js is a popular React framework that makes it easy to build server-rendered applications. It is a great choice for building Vue Storefront applications because it is easy to use and has a large community of developers.

Vue Storefront, thanks to its modular [Architecture](/general/basics/architecture), can be used with any frontend framework.
If you are interested in using Vue Storefront with other frontend frameworks, check out our [guides](/guides) section for more information.

## Enterprise vs Open Source

Vue Storefront comes in two editions: Enterprise and Open Source. This guide will focus on the Enterprise edition, but the same principles apply to the Open Source edition.

You can find all available Vue Storefront integrations in the [integrations](/integrations) section.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, you will need to have the following installed on your machine:

- Node.js - we recommend using the latest LTS version - [download](https://nodejs.org/)
- Package manager - we will use npm in this guide - [download](https://www.npmjs.com/get-npm)

Let's get started!

::grid{:columns="3"}
#section-1
:card{to="/guides/understanding-vue-storefront/vue-storefront-next-js/basics/create-project" title="Create Vue Storefront Next.js project" description="Let's start with creating a Vue Storefront Next.js project" icon="tabler:number-1-small"}
::

