---
title: Overview
---

# SDK

The Alokai SDK simplifies the development process by providing pre-built functionality to enables seamless interaction between your storefront and various Commerce Platforms and third-party services. 

By utilizing the Alokai SDK, you can establish a type-safe contract between your storefront and various APIs with the help of the Server Middleware acting as a proxy.

:card{to="/sdk/getting-started" title="Get Started" description="Learn how to initialize the SDK in your storefronts" icon="ic:baseline-rocket"}

Along with the Alokai SDK, we're providing tools for the State Management. Those are already preconfigured and ready to use. Available both for Next.js and Nuxt through our dedicated packages.

:card{to="/sdk/getting-started/state-management" title="State Management" description="Learn how to use built in State Manager" icon="grommet-icons:storage"}


## Key Features

::list{type="success"}
- **Type-safe** - The SDK is fully typed, so you can use it with confidence.
- **Plugin architecture** - The SDK is built on a plugin architecture that allows you to extend its functionality with ease.
- **Modular** - You can use multiple integrations at once, and they won't interfere with each other.
- **Customizable** - You can extend the SDK to add new methods, modify existing methods, and more
- **Framework-agnostic** - The SDK is written in TypeScript, so you can use it with any JS framework
::


## Architecture

The SDK has two components:

1. The SDK Core - the core package, `@vue-storefront/sdk`, that initializes all modules and implements the plug-in architecture
2. Modules - pluggable pieces of code as standalone packages that integrate into the core to add functionality (eg.: `middlewareModule`)

In most cases, you would use `middlewareModule` with different configurations - but you can also create your own modules.

:card{to="/integrations" title="Integrations" description="See all of the available integrations that you can use with the SDK" icon="fluent:puzzle-cube-piece-20-filled"}

## Example Usage

Once a module is initialized, it can be used to interact with the server middleware. 

```ts
import { sdk } from '~/sdk'

await sdk.exampleModule.doSomething(); // <- fully-typed
```

These SDK methods will then call a corresponding middleware endpoint. This means that you don't have to worry about creating your own API calls to work a service's API. Instead, you can use the integration SDK to get the data you need.

And since the SDK is written in TypeScript, the data returned from the methods will be fully typed - meaning you can catch some errors earlier. 



